[Music]
are you looking for a traditional
cream-based clam chowder recipe this
chowder named my best clam chowder by
pioneer girl the all recipes contributor
is a delicious traditional cream based
chowder this recipe calls for the
standard chowder ingredients onion
celery potatoes diced carrots clams and
cream
she continues a little red wine vinegar
is added before serving for extra flavor
sounds like a tasty recipe let's get
started first open 3 6 and 1/2 ounce
cans of minced clams set a strainer over
a small bowl and strain the clams
reserving the broth you'll need both
broth and clams for this recipe dice 1
onion you're looking for about a cup
[Music]
next dice about 1/2 a cup of celery 2
stalks should be good and next dice 2
medium carrots again looking for a cup
and last dice 3 medium potatoes you're
looking for 2 cups
in a large skillet over medium heat add
the onion celery and carrots
[Music]
add the potatoes
now add the clam juice you reserved from
the three cans of minced clams then add
enough water to cover the vegetables and
cook the vegetables until they're tender
[Music]
while the vegetables cook place a large
heavy saucepan over medium heat and melt
3/4 of a cup of butter when the butter
is melted whisk in 3/4 of a cup of
all-purpose flour and whisk it until the
mixture is smooth making a roux now add
in 1 quart of half-and-half slowly at
first whisking it constantly until the
mixture is thick and smooth
[Music]
add the cook vegetables when they're
tender along with the broth
[Music]
stir it to combine and heat everything
through but don't let it boil next stir
in the minced clams keep an eye on the
clams you want them to get hot but they
will become tough if they're overcooked
now some final ingredients two
tablespoons of red wine vinegar one and
a half teaspoons of salt and some ground
black pepper to taste stir the chowder
until the flavors are completely mixed
the best clam chowder recipe is ready to
serve
serve the chowder with traditional
oyster crackers